---
layout: post
title: The Calm Before the Storm
---

## What did I do this past week?

I had wanted to start this project since last weekend, but unfortunately, the project details weren't released until Monday. Needless to say, having to do the project and dealing with preparations for career fair is the last thing I want to do, but here I am in the middle of this mess. My partner and I have made some progress on Netflix. Or so we thought. We had completely missed the fact that we needed to keep the time under one minute, which meant we had to go back to the drawing board to think of a more efficient algorithm than our pseudo cache in the form a map right now. 

In class, Professor Downing just talked about the project and how iterators worked. Oh, and Chris Martin came and gave us a talk about Bloomberg, so that was cool.

## What's in my way

We need to start thinking up new ideas on how to improve the time. We're leaning towards using a hashmap for the cache as it's the only data structure we could think of that has a good access time for these seemingly random user IDs. Also, how does Boost even work? I think if we can figure out how that works, we can eliminate a lot of parsing time.

## Actual Career Fair Week: What will I do next week?

The upcoming week is perhaps the busiest week of my entire college experience thus far. Between having a project due, an exam, and the career fair all in the first half of the week, I am getting stressed out of my mind. I barely had any time to just sit down and relax this weekend, so I don't know how well I'll fare for this upcoming week. Wish me luck.

## Tip of the week

Find some time to rest and do some career stuff. I really should be telling myself this earlier because even after trying to work all weekend, I didn't get much accomplished since my mind went to mush from worrying about too many things at once. Last semester, Dr. Norman recommended that we take a break from the project and give adequate time to prepare for more important things. At the time, it was an exam which was weighted heavier than the project. Now, it's the career fair. It might not have much of an affect on your academics, but presenting yourself well in front of a recruiter can get a you an internship or a job, which is much better than a good grade in a class. Sure, those points might matter if you're trying to pass a final degree requirement to graduate, but I would certainly weigh a clear mind and calm attitude over getting a 5 on Monday's quiz. (Sorry Professor Downing)

That's all for now. See you next week!
