---
layout: post
title: After-Exam Directions
---

## What did I do this past week?

This week's class was essentially nonexistent. We discussed the specs of the project on Monday and had some guest speakers from Pariveda on Wednesday. We didn't even have class on Friday! (I know a few peeps who were quite overjoyed by that revelation.) The Pariveda talk was really cool, and it encouraged me to look into consulting, something I sort of just avoided in the past.

On Thursday, after getting started on Darwin, I attended 秋祭り hosted here at UT as a collaboration of the Japanese Association along with other Asian culture groups. It was only a small event, but I had lots of fun. My friends and I played some games, watched some 太鼓, ate some curry rice, and jammed to my favorite song which was coincidentally played at the event as part of a rotation of various types of Japanese music. This was my first time going, mainly because I always forgot in previous years, but I certainly will go again.

This past Friday was the UTCS 50th Anniversary, but unfortunately, I couldn't attend the celebration as I was bound for Houston right after my Japanese class. It was my dad's birthday on the 29th, and he wanted to do a walk for Alzheimer's, so I decided to tag along. We also had lunch and watched a movie, and it was just a really pleasant experiencce with my family. Of course, that does mean that my partner and I are quite behind on Darwin, having lost an entire weekend, but he ha some stuff to do for other classes, and I certainly felt that going home was worth the work I would need to put in next week.

## What's in my way?

Upon inspection of the project, I thought it would be rather simple, but the restriction of no getters and setters added a little more complexity to the design. This could also just be because my partner and I haven't put too much thought into it yet since we were both quite busy this week with personal things or other classes. I apparently also have two exams prior to the due date of Darwin next week, so I'll have to juggle that somehow.

## What will I do next week?

I'll be trying to study for my exams while I am still in Houston so that I can focus all my time on the project in the upcoming week. I've been brainstorming some design ideas as well, so I'll try to implement them as soon as I come back and see where I can go from there.

## Tip of the week

Did you know that the GitHub file editor supports Asian characters? I certainly didn't until I tried looking up what extensions I could add in order to type in Japanese. I should've known though since it is a markdown text editor, and reddit's can do the same. For most, this will probably be a rarely used feature, but I think that this opens up for some much more interesting blogs. I'll still be writing in English of course, but I probably can't help throwing in some words here or there that don't affect understanding of the blog for stylistic purposes.

During my research, I also found a [Japanese version of GitHub](http://github.co.jp/), but aside from a nice little home page, I couldn't figure out how it differs from the GitHub in English other than the fact that the office is in Tokyo instead of San Francisco. Maybe my Japanese is just too bad to tell >_<

では、また来週！
