---
layout: post
title: Kizu and Nico
---

## What did I do this past week?

Considering how much we've been doing vector work these past few days, it's not difficult to imagine what would be a large component on the next test. Luckily, as of right now, I have a pretty decent understanding of how these things work. Either that or I'm really good at making up nonsense logic for the quizzes. 

This past week has been very easy once again. There were no real hurdles or surprises in any of my classes. If anything, it felt like a nice break before heading back to the exam mentality this following week. The project went really smoothly as I had expected. My partner and I solved our problem as quickly as we had discovered it, so it was pretty smooth sailing for the most part.

I'm also starting to really like Professor Downing's lecture style. The interactiveness makes the class a lot more exciting than say my Algorithms class. It's not uncommon for me to look to my left and see a row of people sleeping, then turn to the right and witness the exact same thing in that class. Professor Downing's class, on the other hand, keeps you on your toes, and it's a quite effective way of keeping my attention sharp. His analogy this past week with the swap function was awesome.

## What's in my way?

I'm still really scared about the exam. The leaked score I saw earlier this week almost seemed like an early Halloween prank because it almost made me walk down the stairs from the 3rd floor lab to drop the class. I'm not at all confident with my performance, but I suppose there isn't much to do about that at this point. I just need to get over it and focus on the next one.

## What will I do next week?

Class registration is beginning, so I'll be practicing to snipe some CS classes. Most notably, I really want to get into Mobile Computing with Mike Scott, but we all know how popular that class is. Aside from that, I also have an exam in a class where I believe I have only a superficial understanding of the material, so I'll be working to deepen my understanding of the topics.

## Tip of the week

With regards to registration, there are many different things to consider in order to make that perfect schedule. I'm sure by now everyone knows research the class and professor and take care of registration bars and such, but I thought that I would share a few things that I learned about the registration process throughout this and the last semester.

* *Claim your credits for classes by examination or any other means*. The more credit hours you have, the earlier you can register, and the easier it is for you to get the classes that you actually want. Unless, of course, you're like me and need to save them to claim for semester credit so that you don't need to take too many hours each semester for your scholarship requirement.
* *If possible, get classes on MWF or TTH only so that you have fewer school days*. For commuters, it saves transportation expenses. It also makes lots of time for interviews, cooperative work, or just relaxing in between school days. Getting classes only on those specific days may seem difficult, but online courses can help mold that schedule very nicely.
* *Research the syllabus of the class you want to take*. When most people look at classes, they mainly find out about the general feel of the class through reading comments about the professor and such. To be truly sure that you'll enjoy what's ahead, you should take a moment to see what the class actually offers. Most teachers don't change their syllabus too drastically every semester, so chances are, you'll find what you'll be doing next semester right there. Don't like taking finals? You can see if the class has a final or any examination at all.
* *Take similar classes in the same semester*. For a number of classes, the concepts learned in one class can be used in another. Taking them in pairs allows you to strengthen your understanding of the material by applying them in two different ways. One such example is IOS and Android Mobile Computing. I will be attempting to take both next semester to compare and contrast the different ways you create IOS and Android apps. ~~And I also get to use the same app idea for both~~. This doesn't mean you should take Software Engineering and Object-Oriented Programming simulataneously, though.
* *Optimize your schedule smartly*. Don't just take classes that fit together but instead think ahead about what you'd like to do. Leave an hour for lunch around noon to enjoy your meal. Avoid taking classes during the time of events you'd want to attend. ~~You don't want to be the guy who skips class for free ice cream~~.

That's it for now. Brownie points to whoever can determine what my post title is referencing. See you next time!
