---
layout: post
title: The Middle of Midterm Season
---

## What did I do this past week?

It was a surprisingly uneventful week compared to the ones prior. No exams for other classes, no projects (mainly because OOP exam is next week), and no guest speakers made the week seem very calm. In class, we talked about functions vs methods, friendship, lambda functions, overriding operators, and constructors. The last confused my quite a bit for a while, and it seems I wasn't the only one based upon the quiz grade on Friday. Friendship in C++ was new concept for me, and I thought it was really interesting seeing as the only other way I could think of to allow access to private data members would be through get methods.

As a side note, I hope those who read my blog have now realize I've been using 0-based indexing, and it just didn't seem fair to call the first half-week a real week. It does look quite odd that everyone is posting weekly blogs "a week ahead" of me.

## What's in my way?

I think the elephant in the room for everyone this week is the OOP exam. There are so many little details that need to be processed down to a science. Also as Simon mentioned in his blog post, this past quiz was a little weird on the wording in addition to being rather difficult. When I think of output, I usually imagine what is sent to an output stream of some sort, but in the last quiz, it referred to the things that happened in the background involved in creating constructors, so that really threw me off.

## What will I do next week?

Lots of studying will be done for OOP. I already have my study group, so we will be driving through the concepts over and over during the next couple of days. I will also be starting another project for my Programming for Performance class, but that's not due for a while, so I'll focus on the exam at hand and worry about that project and the next OOP project come Friday. Also, I'll be getting back into the habit of finishing assignments as early as possible after they are assigned because I don't want to experience cutting it so close to the deadline for my Algo assignment like last time.

## Tip of the Week

So a surprising number of my classes this semester allow you to bring references to the exam. I recently took the Algorithms exam last week, and my experience preparing for that exam has taught me a lot about the power of such a cheat sheet. For one, even though Professor Downing does not allow writing down code, based on the question on Piazza regarding what *is* allowed, it seems descriptions have received the good Professor's approval and for general purposes will suffice.

Now the flaw many people make when creating these is that they typically write everything down, or as much as they can fit on the front and back of the sheet of paper and in any little gaps between words they can find. One of my friends had written so much on his sheet that he couldn't even read one of the algorithms he wanted to use since he had made the font so small to fit it on the paper. This is not how I personally believe these should be done, but of course each person thinks differently, and my approach may be different from yours.

My approach is to use the cheat sheet more so as a way to minimize the amount of material you have to cover on your own. By having descriptions of things you are likely to forget and little details regarding the various corner cases and such, you can spend the bulk of your time studying the important things yourself: the algorithms and implementations. This mirrors how you would code in a real world setting as well, since you should know how the things you are implementing work and have references for the details you might overlook and corner cases you need to worry about.

On the Algorithms exam, I fell victim to writing too many little details that I would not forget anyways, and I should've spent more time writing down the details of the arguments I needed to make for a specific proof instead. But I have learned from my error, and I will certainly make a better reference this time that better aid me on the OOP exam.

That's all for now. See you next time!
