---
layout: post
title: The First Project
---

## What did I do this past week?

This past week was a short one thanks to Labor Day but, boy, was it a tough one. The first project was due on Thursday, and what an assignment that was. I have never felt so confused on such an easy project before. The coding itself took me only a few hours to think of optimizations, but fixing weird UNIX/DOS line endings to get my tests to run, freaking out over Travis CI failing builds for weird reasons, and figuring out what I needed to do and what files I needed to turn in took me four to five times as long. This is *after* I attended the lecture where Professor Downing explained the steps needed to get started, but many details about the project were left to us to figure out through documentation and the TAs. The misfortune didn't stop there for me, though. Nearing the deadline, I accidentally broke my repo on GitHub with some commits to master instead of dev, and so my master and dev are now desynced. I hope that doesn't cause too many issues since I did submit the most recent SHA of my dev repo commit.

In class, we mainly talked about the details of pointers and references. It took me a really long time to actually process all of it, and even then, I still didn't really fully get it as was seen by how I was brutally *nuked* by the quiz on Friday. Messing around and using pointers and references is one thing, but the level of understanding we need to have for them and their unfamiliar syntax was a little higher than what I was prepared for. We also talked a bit about classes, structs, and data types in C++ and how they compared to Java. Paying attention in CS429 finally paid off as I was able to mentally answer those questions about structs and unions.

## What's in my way?

Remember how I said I was getting better with the quizzes? Yea, that was probably a lie. The questions are getting harder and harder to do in the limited time slot. I'm not the type who would think quickly and go right for the first thing I think of. No, I usually just think a question over and over until I doubt myself into doubting that I am doubting myself before I finally pick an answer, a personality trait which greatly inhibits my performance on these adrenaline rushes.

## Pre-Career Fair Week: What will I do next week?

Aside from having my very first exam already in one my classes (it's like 3 weeks into school??), there's also the career fair coming up, so I will do my best to start practicing for that. Also project two will be released, so I'll be sure to find a fellow suffering soul to get started and avoid the wonderful rush that many experienced last Thursday.

## Tip of the Week

When making changes to GitHub, make sure to do everything *locally* rather than in the repo on GitHub itself. Why I did that in the first place, I have no clue, but doing things locally allows you to fix your mistakes much easier than trying to revert back three commits on the master branch so that you can merge the dev repo that is eleven commits ahead of master. So make your changes locally, double check to see if everything looks good, and then make the commit. Oh, and also don't push to master >_< This past project was my first time using multiple branches on GitHub, so it was a valuable learning experience and a nightmare at the same time.

That's all for now. See you next week!
