---
layout: post
title: An Extra Life Please?
---

## What did I do this past week?

Darwin, please. I have to say that working around getters and setters for this past project was one of the most frustrating experiences I've had with design of a project because I've been so used to just getting what I need when I need them. My partner and I probably messed up the final design somewhat, but at least we got everything to work rather smoothly. We also implemented best by just copying rover and changing a few lines around, just as evolution would have done it.

This past Friday gave me quite a scare. Once again, Professor Downing somehow called on a large number of the people sitting around me. "CK," I look to my left. "Jamie," I look to my right. "Khoi," I look two seats down to my left. "Aditya," in the row behind me. If this was go, I would've been a goner. But fortunately, I managed to skillfully get out unscathed this time.

This week we talked some more about vectors and container constructors. In particular, we talked a bit about move() and how it makes various operations cheaper. Just when I thought we had everything we needed to know about constructors, we get some new toys to play with. We also got six types of variables we now need to know the nuances of. At least they're somewhat straightforward? Some of them are really similar, like globals and static globals, but that might actually make things easier to remember for me.


## What's in my way?

I thought I was finally understanding these constructor details, but I don't think I'm quite there yet. I can sort of see the progression of events when Professor Downing asks us to look at little segments of code, but if the questions weren't multiple choice, I'd have a hard time coming up with the answers myself. I'll be working to solidify that over the next week or so.

## What will I do next week?

I will be starting the last OOP project with my partner. I don't want to cut it so close like I did with Darwin, but then again, that was due to time constraints with other activities, so I think this one won't be too bad. ~~I will also be crying about my Algo exam grade. 誰か助けて。~~

## Pick of the week

I don't really have a tip this week nor any cool tech news, so instead, I'll talk about an event that happened just yesterday called [Extra Life](http://www.extra-life.org/index.cfm?). It's a gaming fundraising event where various streamers from many different communities would organize a 24-hour broadcast in order to raise money for children's hospitals. While I didn't have any money to give as a broke college student, I did offer the next best thing which was my time and encouragement to the dead tired streamers creating content. Although many are just about playing video games for an entire 24 hour period, some of the streams were more elaborate. One that I was rooting for had community contests funded by the communnity for the community. It also had guest speakers ranging from an artist providing tips for newcomers to a web developer explaining the intricacies behind holding up a server for the game to even a voice actress describing her love for the franchise.

It is a whole day, but you don't have to be there the entire time. Even if you can't donate, just being there cheering on the streamer is a great morale boost for the organizer, and having more views on a stream also means you might bring some more attention to the cause. I thought it was a really great event, and despite how small the stream I followed was, I still had a lot of fun tuning in. It's a yearly event, so I hope some you guys partake in it next year!

終わりです。See you next time!
