---
layout: post
title: The Real First Week
---

## What did I do this past week?

I finally settled into the class, and the first thing Professor Downing told us was that we were now competing against each other in his new ranking system. If I wasn't nervous enough about my inadequacy in the class, this certainly confirmed it. Over the weekend, I had the agony of witnessing this little number slipping bit by bit until it was erased from existence. Apparently, the bottom half of the class wasn't ranked. Ouch. The anxiety I experienced from that first quiz just keeps coming back to bite me. Luckily, as the week went on, I was able to do rather well on the two quizzes we had this week, and, came the end of the week, I am now back on the leaderboard. The number still isn't that high, so it's not much of an achievement, but it's something. 

For the most part, class this week felt very relaxed. Mostly, we talked about different ways we could optimize the Collatz algorithm using various types of caches, and Professor Downing gave us a suggested order of things we should do for this first project for those who are completely lost like me. Some of my friends wondered why these notes weren't included as part of the assignment page, but to be perfectly honest, I was glad that the run-through was done in class as it provided a whole lot more clarity than some project to-do list. We also talked a bit more about little nuances in C++ regarding the increment operator, and Professor Downing told us a series hilarious scenarios in an effort to help us remember try-catch. Oh, and the good professor called on me again which leads me to believe that either his algorithm for picking students is truly random, because there is no way we've gone through the 90 or so students in my section already. Or perhaps he read my blog last week and wanted me to get used to getting put on the spot. This time. I was still a little nervous, but at least I said some words that made sense in the context of the question.

## Weekly Woes: What's in my way?

While I have set up most of the things I need to start project 1, I'm still experiencing some issues which I'm hoping to resolve soon. Docker keeps giving me an error the first time I run the tests, but then every time after, it outputs successfully. I'll try to ask around to see if there are any fixes for it, and it seemed like someone on Piazza had a similar issue earlier in the week. Other than that, I suppose the quizzes still give me mini heart attacks because of the short time limit. That and because I have Japanese class right before OOP, and my teacher likes to give us a quiz right at the end of class, I always end up running to class to make it in time, and all that adrenaline rushing through my blood is not what I want as I am taking a quiz. I think I'll have to talk to my Japanese teacher about that.

## Week Numero 10: What will I do next week?

My current plan is to get a working version of my code uploaded to UVa before I head back to school. This serves two purposes. The first is that I would technically have a working algorithm if UVa accepts it, though it'd be terrible in terms of optimization. I just want to have something to start with, as Professor Downing had suggested. The second is that by getting that far, I would have also been acquainted with the tools I need for this project somewhat, which is the main reason why I haven't been able to start just yet. I also have yet to read for the week, so I'll go do that when I get tired of typing. As always, I will continue trying to do my best on the quizzes.

## Tip of the Week

Ever have the urge to go to a study group but are too lazy to actually leave the house? Well, with [Flockdraw](http://flockdraw.com/), you don't have to! Traditionally, the website is used for collaborative art, but I use this neat little website whenever I want to hold a study session with distant friends. How it works is simple: you create a room, give yourself a name, and give out the canvas link to participants. Those invited have the option to give themselves a name and can then join the room, writing on the canvas as they please in real time. Then you can use any voice chat service, such as Skype, and begin a study session with the canvas as your whiteboard. You can write equations, draw graphs, just about anything. It works best if you have a wireless stylus so that it's easier to use than a mouse for drawing and writing, but I personally don't have a problem without one. My only concern is that the canvas can be a little small, but it's really neat and fun. Give it a try!

That's all for week 1. See you next time!
