---
layout: post
title: The Penultimate Week
---

## What did I do this past week?

For how close we are to the end of the semester, this week was very nice. I had my oral performance exam in Japanese just this past Friday with the intention to go home early next week, but alas, I wasn't able to exchange my bus ticket for another on Tuesday. I suppose I'll just chill out in the upcoming week, as many of my classes have already been canceled.

The final OOP project went well ... I think. My partner and I were unsure about some of the design, but we were both convinced that we did okay, so we left it at that. I'm glad that we were able to finish the project early because there were a lot of stuff I had to do this week, including the Algo assignment and a project for Performance and Correctness. While the optimization project for Performance itself was a pain, my group learned a lot by going to the professor's office hours, where we were able to talk to some very knowledgeable grad students.

For OOP, this past week was all about inheritance. In particular, we spent a bit of time talking about how to override functions declared in the parent class as well as which function gets called when various object pointers are used to call functions. Surprisingly, I thought that for the most part, the concept was rather intuitive, but intuition wasn't enough to help me through the quizzes, apparently. On Wednesday, Spiceworks visited for a presentation, so that was cool. It's always nice to see where past UT graduates have wound up in the professional world and hear their insights.

## What's in my way?

I haven't said much about it in the past, but I am now completely lost in Algo. I have a only a basic understanding of the concepts, but that's not enough for me to just breeze through the assignments and, most likely, the exam. The lectures are just so boring compared to OOP that I can't seem to hold my attention span for longer than 10-15 minute intervals at a time. Oh, and based on the class page, we're only going to get 4 quiz drops in OOP??

## What will I do next week?

... Seriously who assigns a homework assignment due the day before Thanksgiving? I have been informed that I have Algo homework, so I'll be tackling that right away. My skit group also let me down this past week, as many of the revisions of the skit I had notified them about were left unchanged. I'll probably fix those myself and run them by 先生 next week.

## Tip of the week

This has been an issue for a few weeks now, but in case you aren't aware, there appear to be some Skype accounts that are being hacked and used as a means to spread malicious links. I didn't really pay much attention to it until a few of the people on my Skype list fell victim to this and sent me baidu links or something of the sort. If you haven't done so already, make sure to change your Skype password and avoid clicking on seemingly harmless links that people you know send you. If you aren't sure if they're safe, ask the sender yourself. These seem like really obvious things to do, but my friends who have been hacked this past week are rather bright people, so it can happen to anyone.

Enjoy Sun and Moon in this nice, winter weather. See you next time!
