---
layout: post
title: Break Time
---

## What did I do this past week?

I'm so glad it's over because this past week had been sooo busy. My exam went better than I expected, I finished Netflix on time with relatively little hiccups, and my quizzes in all my classes went swell. With regards to OOP, we've been spending a lot of time on iterators and writing simple algorithms using them. Based on how much Professor Downing is stressing them, I'm assuming that I'll see them again very soon. I also really like these talks that we're getting. JPL came this past Wednesday, and the presentation was really awesome. ~~Although the quizzes being super easy the following day also makes me look forward to these.~~ Netflix bugged me a little though. As always, the submission process freaked me out more than the actual process, but it certainly felt more straightforward than the first project. That could be because the struggles from the first project set up everything for me with the second project.

## What's in my way?

At the moment, the class is going smoothly. I'm understanding lectures more easily now that they're not about pointers anymore. The exam is coming up soon though, so I'll be trying my best to absorb everything I've learned so far in Professor Downing's class, and golly there's a lot.

## What will I do next week?

Compared to my recent weeks, this upcoming one seems very relaxed. My Algo exam is next week, so in addition to prepping for OOP, I'll also be studying for that. I'm really glad we have no projects while the exam is going on unlike in CS439. I already found a partner too, so I'm off to a great start.

## Tip of the Week

A lot of my friends have been doing behavioral interviews recently, and a question that keeps popping up is "explain a time you had a disagreement with a friend while working on a project" or something similar. But what if the teams I've worked with are perfect, and I've never encountered any significant problem that would be considered an agreement? This is where a creative mind helps. If you can make things up on the spot, you're golden. But if you're like me and dislike saying a single word that might sound wrong, then you should prepare a story ahead of time. The recruiters aren't trying to see if you've encountered specific hardships; they're more interested in seeing how you would deal with those specific hardships if you encounter them. As long as you're honest about what you would do given the situation, there's no problem.

That's all for now. Thanks for reading!
