---
layout: post
title: Back to the Grind
---

## What did I do this past week?

Last week wasn't particularly busy week, but it certainly felt heavy. At the very beginning of the week, three companies got back to me seemingly out of the blue. While I felt glad that I was being contacted, the timing could have certainly been better.

The OOP exam was all that was on my mind last week and for good reason. While I had a general idea of what I had to do on the exam, it was very likely that I had left out some details of implementation that will cost me points. I also totally forgot that end() points at the index after the container, so good bye free points.

In class, we talked a bit about inner and nested classes and how they compare to those in Java. We also talked about four different types of pointers. I really love the analogy used by Professor Downing to explain each one. It's concise enough to keep the relevant details, yet funny which makes them easy to remember. I really wish he did the same thing when we were going over pointers and constructors.

## What's in my way?

I still get confused with pointers sometimes, and the quizzes are still pummeling me into the ground. At least I somewhat got constructors down just before the exam. Now that the exam is over though, there isn't really much on my agenda to stand in my way for the next few weeks aside from the projects.

## What will I do next week?

I've finished most of my work for my other classes, so I will be focusing all efforts on doing the next project as quickly as possible. My partner is just as motivated as I am to get things done, so I'm certain we'll have little trouble in the upcoming week. I also have an exam in one of my classes, continuing the streak with my third week in a row with at least one exam. Fun stuff.

## Tip of the Week

Just yesterday, I was brutally annihilated by a coding challenge from HBK. I should've known something was up when they had left me three whole hours to answer just a single problem, but the recruiter had told me to not overthink the problem which gave me a false sense of security. Ultimately, I choked under pressure when I could not find the bug that destroyed my seemingly sound algorithm.

This leads me to my tip which would have saved me the embarassment of miserably failing the coding challenge: debug as you go along. I had a clear goal in mind for what I wanted to do, but by the time I went back to check on my algorithm for testing, I realized I had made many different helper methods that I could have checked in my own IDE very quickly to avoid later complications. Instead, what I did was wait towards the very end when I discovered that my algorithm had imploded on itself due to numerous human errors on my part, and I was not able to track them all down in the few hundred lines I had just written up in time. It's painful to learn something so simple from losing something as big as an internship opportunity, but I certainly know what I'll do for my other coding challenges, and I hope you guys can take something from this too.

That's it for now. See you next week!
