---
layout: post
title: Hype Train
---

## What did I do this past week?

For the majority of the start of this week, I was really down because the Algo exam took quite a toll on me. I was in a solid position in the class prior to the exam last, last Wednesday, but the aftermath left me wondering if I'm at all mathematically competent. Came this past Wednesday, and apparently I almost got an A on the exam?? So that was completely, positively the highlight of my week. In Japanese, I had a skit due, and my Japanese skit group wrote a hilariously awful script. We also sang Frozen's Let It Go in Japanese which would be the second highlight of my week.

Finally in OOP this past week, we learned about inheritance along with some of the ways we could use to create our Life project. These, along with Aaron's efforts on Piazza really pushed my partner and I along on the project, and now we are essentially done aside from writing tests and perhaps tweaking some design. This is also perhaps the earliest any of my groups have finished the project, and it's a splendid way to end the last OOP project of the semester. The child constructor calling the parent constructor tripped me up on the quiz on Wednesday, but I got it down by Friday ... I think.

As a side note, I guess Professor Downing realized that he missed me the week prior after reading my last week's blog post, so this past week, he completed the capture and got me two times on back-to-back days. Oh, and then there's the return of "Hype." ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

## What's in my way?

With regards to OOP, I think for the most part, I'm understanding the concepts. I'm just having a bit of trouble implementing everything, but the project helped with that a little. I'll probably reread the notes to get the rest of the clarity I need. I also haven't really mentioned my Correctnes and Performance class with Vaan de Geijn so far this semester, but that's my fourth class, and although we started out pretty smoothly, we've now entered the realm of cache optimizations, and I'm lost. It'll be fun wandering about trying to figure out what to do with my group.

## What will I do next week?

There's Algo homework and some finalizations to be made to the OOP project. I also have to start the Performance project since it's due on Thursday.

## Pick of the week

I'm pretty sure everyone and their gamer cat knows about Discord by now, but for the uninformed, [Discord](https://discordapp.com/) is a chat app that combines the interface of IRC clients like mIRC with voice communication. In a way, it's like Skype but with chat rooms instead of individuals or small groups of people. As a user of mIRC way back in the day, I am a supporter of using Discord for just about anything.

I was introduced to it this past summer by a mobile game community I participated in, and as far I've noticed, Discord is primarily used for group gaming. Of course, that doesn't mean that there aren't other channels dedicated to various other endeavors, such as studying for the Algo exam. Each channel also has a bot which functions as a mediator for channel activities such as assigning roles for specific priveleges and playing music. More crafty ones have specific commands which respond to various environmental stimuli, similar to how bot scripts functioned in IRC. If you're interested in developing these bots for your own server, here's the [Discord API](https://discordapp.com/developers/docs/intro). I was fairly interested in writing silly scripts back when I used mIRC, so I'll definitely be taking a look at this as well to bring back some good old memories. If you know some mSL, here's a fun little segment that I dug up back from when I still messed around with mSL scripting.

~~~~
on !\*:ACTION:\*trout\*:#:{
  var %tempNeeded = $1-
  if ( $me isin %tempNeeded ) {
    kick $chan $nick Don't touch me with a trout!
  }
~~~~

That's all for now. See you next time!
