---
layout: post
title: It's A Little Too Quiet
---

## What did I do this past week?

This past week was all about the heap, arrays, and the new project. All in all, it was really relaxing without too much going on. I had an exam in one of my classes, but aside from that, it was pretty much a quiet week. *Too* quiet for my liking. I can't help but fear for my exam grade because I made quite a few dumb mistakes. Hopefully, they weren't too big to impact my grade, but I'm still preparing for the worst, especially since I didn't come up with the same solutions as Professor Downing had said on that one quiz.

I'd also like to point out that it was hilarious that he called on so many people in the little group I sit with this past Friday. It also appears that Professor Downing is getting better at pronouncing my name. In the four times I've been called on, he has used three different pronunciations: High-Ep, Hype, and Heep. I think he chuckled a little when he said that last one since we are coincidentally also talking about the heap. Don't worry, Professor Downing, most teachers don't get my name right either.

## What's in my way?

My partner and I are encountering an issue with the project. For some reason, whenever a new object is created using construct, it not only creates the object at the desired memory address, but it also completely messes with the starting sentinel as well. For example, For a block -4 x -4, a construction of an object with the value 2 would change the block to y 2 -4, where x and y seem to be some random number. I think we'll be verifying if our valid function works, and in the worst case scenario, we may have to just rewrite the functions from scratch. It's not too big of a deal though, since the project this time is really short.

## What will I do next week?

I'll be fixing the project with my partner. I think if we throw our heads repeatedly at the problem, we should be able to identify it no problem. I also have an essay due for my Japanese class in addition to some homework for various classes, but they should not be too draining.

## Tip of the week

If you're running out of creative ideas for new projects to work on, one thing you can do is try rewriting something you did in the past ... but in a different language. It's a multipurpose exercise. If you can do it all in one go, it shows that you are capable enough in both languages in order to achieve the same goal. If you can't, it forces you to learn the tricks needed to elevate yourself to that level. One of my pet projects this year will be trying to write the gacky game engine that I attempted to make two years ago, but this time, I'll be using C++ which is much more suited for the task than Java. I'm not very strong in C++, so most likely, I'll be looking lots of stuff up as I go along, but I think it'll be a nice learning experience.

That's it from me this week. Hope to see you again!
