---
layout: post
title: Post Exam
---

## What did I do this past week?

This week had been the busiest week of the semester thus far. I had two exams which took quite a bit of time to prepare. One was kanji class which was a breeze. The other was SWE, and many hours were spent reviewing over the quizzes and the readings for the cheat sheet. Fortunately, all those questions that I missed on the quizzes didn't take much effort to take-in because I could still remember the shame of missing them in the first place (including some from this week...) Of course, many more hours were devoted to sitting in front of a computer with a friend of mine to figure out the semantics of Python that would be covered on the exam. All this hard work seemed to pay off, as I did rather well (or so I think), so whatever I did must have been effective.

## What's in my way?

I have exams for the next two weeks, so that should be fun. This weekend will be a lot more studying in preparation of the weeks to come. There's also IDB part 2 which still has no documentation on what is needed. All I know is my group needs to start on it soon because I will be out of town next weekend.

## What will I do next week?

I have a Networks exam that I need to focus on. Additonally, I need to work with my group to do as much of the project as I can with the time that I have. Oh, and I have a "project" due next week in Security as well. I honestly have no idea what is going on in there, and based on people I've talked to, it seems that no else does either ...

## What's my experience of the class?

Professor Downing was rather generous with this test. Many of the questions from the exam came directly from quizzes, and the coding section was super straightforward. It might have also been because I prepared so much for this exam that it felt easy. I think I'll save my strategy for this exam as a tip of the week closer to the next exam.

I would also like to say how much I appreciate HackerRank for the coding component. I still remember how we had to write C++ in a Canvas text editor in OOP and had no idea if the code would even compile, let alone run the exact test cases we need to pass while we write our code.

## Pick of the week

I was browsing through reddit for something neat and stumbled across this [comic explaining AES](http://www.moserware.com/2009/09/stick-figure-guide-to-advanced.html). Despite having taken another security course in the past that briefly covered the semantics of AES, I still noped out as soon as the math hit, but I still found it more entertaining than reading a paper to get even more confused.

I hope you enjoyed your Friday the 13th. See you next time!
