---
layout: post
title: A Game of Throws
---

## What did I do this past week?

This week started out okay, and then the world flipped upside down. After my easy Kanji exam on Tuesday, I received a grim message on Canvas telling me I received a 9.5/85 on the second phase of IDB. My whole team got online and tested the site, and everything looked fine, so we were very confused on the matter. Turned out, the problem was that the link we put in the JSON for our site was missing a sneaky "s" which consequently didn't redirect properly. Fortunately, the TAs were kind enough to accept our request for a regrade with the updated link.

The rest of the week was mainly working on phase 3 of IDB. I took my own tip from the previous week and had a friend check out our search functionality, and what do you know, within a mere minute, he found something strange. I'm not sure if it's a bug or a feature, but sometimes regex seems to kick in for our search despite not yet been implemented. For example, a search for "stick" shows a result with the word "sticks" in it, but not the name "Fiddlesticks." Once, we even had a result where nothing matched with the search phrase, yet MongoDB had no issue handing it to us in a response. There's a lot happening under the hood that I haven't fully understood yet, so hopefully, nothing weird happens when the TAs get around to grading our project.

## What's in my way?

Apparently, SQL is very hard. I got destroyed on most of the quizzes with SQL so far, and there aren't too many quizzes left to replace them, so I need to get all the points in the next couple of quizzes if I want to still hit the 180 point goal. 

## What will I do next week?

I have a project due for Security and some homeworks for other classes, but aside from that, it's an off-week in SWE, so I don't think next week will be too bad.

## What's my experience of the class?

It looks like we're taking a break from SQL to do some refactorings in Java (bless). I honestly feel that I'm hopeless when it comes to SQL, seeing as not even a third session over the topic with Professor Downing can help me fully grasp all the details. On paper, it doesn't seem difficult, but for some reason, when I try to write the queries myself, I blank out. Thankfully, I was never called on for any of the SQL questions in class, or it would have most certainly ended in a disaster.

## Pick of the week

This week's pick is a technique called [dependency injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection). The idea is that instead of letting the client deal creating an object, we pass the object in to the client from another source. This source is simply another object higher up in the dependency hierarchy or something called the injector, which is a framework that builds the dependency graph for you and "injects" the object where it is needed. So now instead of having the client create instances of a class for use, the client would take the instance as a parameter.

Why would you want to use dependency injection? It makes testing easier by isolating components. Suppose class A builds an instance of class B. If you want to test class A, you have to also make sure that the instance of B inside of A is working properly. If the test breaks, is it because class A broke or is it because class B broke? By taking an argument for the instance instead, you can build the instance of B if you so wish and test it separately or just pass in a mock of B and solely test the functionality of A. Here's a brief introduction [article](http://www.jamesshore.com/Blog/Dependency-Injection-Demystified.html) I found that may help you understand this a bit more.

Now that we're back in Java (for however briefly), I have some more stuff to share from my internship, so dependency injection may be a three-part series. See you next week!
