---
layout: post
title: Disaster Week
---

## What did I do this past week?

As I had expected last week, this past week was a relaxing break from all the tests and projects that had piled on weeks prior. Not much happened, which gave me ample time to do my Networks project and get started on IDB3. Apparently MongoDB has built in index tables, so for the most part, we got the groundwork for the search functionality up and running in the backend. We only need to refine searches and then make them look nice on the front end.

As always, I went to the Under Armor talk this week. It went okay I guess, but that was the first time I've seen a talk go past the allotted time slot. I also got my first 0/6 this semester. It wasn't that I didn't know regex; I just somehow blanked out and forgot what [^a] did. As soon as my friend told me what it did after the quiz, I immediately got the correct answer for all three questions. This past Friday just wasn't very good to me in general. A variety of terrible things occurred, and I don't want to bore you with the details, but I will say that I am very sad that I lost my watch :(

## What's in my way?

I have a Kanji exam next week, but that's not too bad. IDB3 is also due next week, but I think we've made a considerable amount of progress to not worry too much. Other than that, I just need to make sure I keep up with classes and finish the semester strong.

## What will I do next week?

A little studying on Monday for for Kanji test followed by many hours in the lab to close out IDB3. I also need to start looking for a place to live for next year before they run out of spots.

## What's my experience of the class?

Class has been cool. This is the first time I've had such an indepth explanation of regular expressions, and considering how useful they are, I'm surprised it took this long for us to learn about them. Maybe I have been taking the wrong classes all this time.

I liked what we did on Friday. Having Professor Downing and the TAs walk around to get a preview of the presentation is important both for the instructors to know our progress, and possibly our troubles, with the project as well as the students by having valuable feedback and what could be changed to improve the quality of our site. Receiving insights on the presentation of our site is much more useful than just getting a grade for a checklist of rather basic items.

## Tip of the week

Currently, how my group handles testing is that the front-end team tests the front-end, and the back-end team tests the back-end. As developers of our respective areas, we know best what functionalities need to be check and the means to do so. The problem here is that since there are deadlines involved, we sometimes test only the most basic of cases in order to get a product that we can call "complete". Thus, inspired by Friday's lecture, my tip for this week is to have another group playtest your website and API once you think you've made a good enough effort for turn-in. I'm not sure whether it's the spirit of competition with classmates or the desire to find flaws in everything or the addiction to proving others wrong, but when an outsider reviews your product, more likely than not they will test it with utmost scrutiny, covering cases you have never thought of testing.

I hope your luck this past week was better than mine. See you next time!
