---
layout: post
title: Good Week Short Week
---

## What did I do this past week?

For some reason, it feels like my classes have not fully accelerated yet. Sure, we're learning things in class, and we have assignments due, but I find myself very ... free during this past week. Perhaps it's because I'm used to the grind of classes now after my time here at UT, so this all feels normal.

I was called on this past week as "Hype", and I guess I must have been quite nervous because I can't seem to recall what I said despite the topic being an easy quiz question. I just remember it was quite a messy response, but thankfully Professor Downing got me back on track to not waste anymore time. I was also rather proud of how well I managed my time with Collatz as well as my performance on the quizzes throughout the entire week. I hope I can keep this up throughout the rest of the semester.

## What's in my way?

I now have some concurrent projects to keep track of between my CS classes. Their due dates are far from now, but I will need to figure out a balance between the three. I had originally planned to start on one of them this weekend, but my family decided to come up to visit on Saturday, and a friend of mine wanted to catch up on Sunday, so that doesn't leave me much time to meet up with my groups to do anything aside from some homeworks before bed.

## What will I do next week?

I need to get started on all my projects and make enough progress on at least one of them so that I can focus on other things. I am on a very good start to the semester, and I just need to keep driving forward to keep the momentum going. As soon as I start procrastinating, everything will start going downhill, so I am doing my best to keep my head in the game.

## What's my experience of the class?

Class has been pretty neat. We're now entering the detail-oriented part of the class, so it's starting to get exciting. For the most part, I'm used to all of the things Professor Downing does in class down to the things that he says. I'm just sad Jasper isn't here with us anymore to increment the counters.

## Pick of the week

Are you a scrub at vim like me but still want to work from the comfort of your room through SSH? Well, worry no more! This week's pick is remote Sublime (rsub). After just a few quick setup steps, you too can use a text editor with a UI over SSH. I followed the tutorial [here](https://wrgms.com/editing-files-remotely-via-ssh-on-sublimetext-3/) to get started. If the instructions aren't working for you for some reason, take a look at the comment section as many others may also have that same problem.

I hope you'll give rsub a try. Have good week everyone!
