---
layout: post
title: Post Exam
---

## What did I do this past week?

7This past week started out with a Security exam which went pretty well. I distinctly remember not being able to answer a question on the exam, so I wrote down "unicorn" and somehow still ended up with a rather high grade. Regardless, with that out of the way, I am now done with midterm season, just in time to go full speed on IDB2.

The project wasn't very difficult, but oh boy was it annoying to set up on GCP. Even now with the website and database up and running, I'm not entirely sure if we did it correctly because one of our API calls is ridiculously slow. Additionally, there were some inexplicable consistencies with the database we were using, from capitalization of a certain letter in a field in one instance and having it lower-case in another, to completely different names in general. I'm starting to figure out where the secret sauce of Riot's spaghetti code is coming from.

After finishing IDB2, my brain pretty much shut off this Friday, and I went from having a perfect quiz week to getting a 2/6 on Friday's 1/n. One of the questions I missed wasn't even because I didn't know the answer but because I miscounted the number of rows. Oops.

I had wanted to go to HackTX this weekend, but it unluckily coincided with my dad's birthday, so I will have to pass to return back to Houston. I will also be doing the Walk to End Alzheimer's with my family among other activities to celebrate my dad's birthday, so this weekend will be very relaxing end to a hectic month.

## What's in my way?

Apparently, I don't remember SQL as well as I thought I did. This might be because Data Management to this day has been my least favorite UTCS class. It's definitely something I need to know though since I'll be working back-end at Amazon.

## What will I do next week?

There is a lull in excitement for a bit next week. I have a presentation for Kanji class and a programming assignment for Networks due, but that's about it, so they'll be my focus. I also want to start on IDB3 as quickly as possible to avoid the crunch of this past phase.

## What's my experience of the class?

This is the third time that I've had lectures about data models and SQL at UT, and it still hasn't fully stuck. With how in depth Professor Downing is going into the different joins, in contrast to Data Management, I'm hoping that I'll get it this time. After the incident with Networks, I really appreciate that Professor Downing forces in-class participation because it keeps you alert and on your toes, so you have to make sure you know your stuff well ahead of the exam to not make a fool of yourself when called on.

## Pick of the week

I mentioned earlier that I had written "unicorn" as an answer for one of the questions on my Security exam. Well, it certainly wasn't just something random that I put down because I couldn't think of anything else. The origial question was something along the lines of "what do you call the event where someone uses the legitimate session of an unattended workstation for malicious deeds?" If you removed the "malicious" part, you'd end up with something we call "unicorn" at Amazon. The idea is that when someone leaves their machine logged in and unattended, a nearby teammate who notices would go onto the machine, send an email to everyone on the team that the person loves unicorns, followed by logging out for the person.

While a rather silly activity, it reinforces the idea of security of privacy and encourages everyone to log out of their machine in order to preserve those two qualities. My personal team has a variant of this called "donut" where instead of saying that the person loves unicorns, we would say that person would buy everyone on the team donuts for breakfast. I'm not sure if anyone else does this or has variants of it, so make sure you meet team agreement before trying it out on your fellow unicorn enthusiasts.

Have a spooky Halloween weekend! See you next time!
