---
layout: post
title: Getting Back Into "The Zone"
---

## What did I do this past week?

This past week was a lot of playing catchup due to the events of last week. Luckily, there wasn't much that I missed in the first week, so I am comfortably up to speed with time to spare. I was able to get a fairly good start on the quizzes despite having to use my first drop on last week's quiz. Just today, I managed to finish the majority of Collatz by making some optimizations and adding a metacache that allowed me to pass all three of HackerRank's tests on my first try. Yay me. Overall, this past week has been very light on work as most of my assignments are coincidentally all due within a day of each other next week.

## What's in my way?

At the moment, not much is in my way in terms of SWE. I will need to figure out how to close out the project because for some reason, I forgot where the git log and pydoc related files are located. It shouldn't take me too long to find out though, and help is only a Piazza question away.

## What will I do next week?

I will complete and turn in the project hopefully no later than Monday. That would leave me with ample time to do assignments for my other CS classes. I wonder if we will be getting groups next Friday to start on the next project.

Of course, there is also the elephant in the room: CNS career fair! Just like Brian, I am also quite fortunate to have had success last summer at Amazon and will be returning to their office here in Austin when I graduate this year. I am very happy to say that I can finally bid farewell to interviews and stressful human interactions for the rest of my undergraduate year.

Although this does not really apply to me, I find it odd that CS professors would stress the importance of career fair yet end up having their assignments due on the day of the event. The outcome of any timeline diverging from this point is by all means the student's own making, and while I understand that students should learn to prioritize their work with their deadlines and their commitments, I certainly still find it strange that it would turn out like this since I would expect that those who do not plan accordingly would end up hurting quite a bit.

## What's my experience of the class?

This class is just like how I remembered OOP to be. There's a lot of independent learning as Professor Downing will only go over the bare minimum you need to know to do what you need to do. He does give some hints here and there such as the optimizations we did in class on Friday, but to learn enough about Python to do Collatz, you will have to do some searching on your own. Fortunately, I have worked with Python briefly in the past, and the language itself is rather nice and straightforward, so I haven't encountered glaring issues as of yet. There's also a steep learning curve for the tools, but thankfully, I still remember a good bit from when we used them in OOP, so the first project has been a nice and slow start to the course. 

## Pick of the week

Inspired by Viet's post last week, my pick for this week will be on the related topic of AI in multiplayer online games. In particular, I will be showcasing a Twitch channel that I stumbled upon this past summer: [the Student StarCraft AI Tournament](https://www.twitch.tv/sscait), also known as SSCAIT.

For those who are unaware, StarCraft, frequently referred to by the gaming community as simply SC, was an extremely popular real-time strategy game that essentially started the eSports scene around the globe. It was responsible for populating many of the PC bangs in South Korea and built much of the infrastructure for competitive pro-gaming and love for eSports that still burns strong today nearly 20 years after its release. Since then, SC has received its sequel, the StarCraft II triology, as well as very recently a visual rework of the original game in the form of StarCraft: Remastered.

As with many of Blizzard's older games, SC would not be nearly as successful if it was not for the strong fanbase that grew around the game. Thanks to SC's easily accessible API, passionate players were able to create wonderful custom maps, new game modes, and, perhaps most interesting of all, potent AI.

SSCAIT is a Twitch channel devoted to the creation and refinement of player-made AI, hosting a battlefield for these fan creations to fight it out and evolve. Some of the AIs I saw were simple: they could only employ one strategy and used it solely for the entire duration of the game. The even more primitive ones could only use one strategy period throughout all their games. On the other hand, there were some that were much more advanced and "experienced". With hundreds and thousands of games to learn from, these were AIs that could not only use a wide variety of openings but could properly react to what their opponents were doing. It's remarkable to see an AI scout a Protoss base, find double gas geysers mining but too few Dragoons active, and from that determine that the enemy is going for Dark Templar tech.

Unlike linear games such as DotA, StarCraft is extremely dynamic in how a match could turn out. While the matchups may be repetitive, the build paths that can be taken are countless. This gives SC AI a much harder time to adapt and makes it that much more impressive when it does. While I still can't see a SC AI take on a pro in a short-series at the moment, with enough time, I believe it has potential to do so much more. A player cannot keep up with the micromanagement nor macromanagement of an AI; that is certain as a human cannot achieve thousands of actions per minute. All that a proplayer has over an AI is strategic use of the map and experience of using unique dynamic builds to outsmart his machine opponent, but you have to wonder how long that will last.

That's all for this week. See you again next time!
