---
layout: post
title: 4ebc6bb33b4fc4957da6420b5b8f6cf4
---

## What did I do this past week?

This week was really relaxing because midterm season is starting, so all the professors stopped handing out assignments in preparation of exams. I finished both my Networks project as well as my Security project and just carried on as usual in SWE. I was pretty sad about missing such an easy question on one of the quizzes this week, but I can only look forward and strive to do better on the future ones. At least I will remember them for next time and never make the same mistakes again.

I also attended the Atlassian talk this week. I thought it was pretty interesting that they were trying to develop a communication application to directly rival Slack. Walking in, I had expected the presentation to be more oriented towards how they handled internal communication at Atlassian rather than a subtle advertisement for a new product. The talk was also much shorter than I had anticipated, but hey, a free quiz grade and some pizza are hard to beat.

## What's in my way?

The test is the big thing next week. I hope the practice exam we're doing in class next Wednesday will shed some light on how the test will be structured. Content-wise, I think I kept up with everything, but I will need to review all the material to make sure I have it all down.

## What will I do next week?

Study study study. I have two exams next week, and although one is much easier than the other, I will have to worry about the easier one first since it is on Tuesday. If the project specs are posted, I will also start regrouping with my team to work on the second part of IDB.

## What's my experience of the class?

This week was the first time I've seen Professor Downing doubt his own work. Typically, when he types out a snippet of code, he is usually very quick and concise about what he needs to do, but he started to question the things he write when people ask questions about it. I suppose it is also the case that there are some very bright individuals in the class who most definitely see things differently than how Professor Downing does. Regardless, his knowledge of the little perks of Python still impresses me every day. To be fluent in a language enough to know its implentation details like the good professor is a life goal for me.

## Pick of the week

Since we're on the topic of UML diagrams, I decided that this week's pick of the week will be the UML diagram editor that I personally use: [Gliffy](https://www.gliffy.com/). It does ask you to sign up using an email address to save your diagrams for later editing, but the editor itself is completely free, so you can simply screenshot your work once you're done if you don't think you will need to make any edits. There is also a 14-day free trial you can take advantage of during the development phase where you find yourself editing your models a lot.

I hope Gliffy can help you solidify your models as you work on the second phase of IDB. See you next time!
