---
layout: post
title: To Do or Not To Do?
---

## What did I do this past week?

This week felt very short. This was probably because there wasn't much to be done with Thanksgiving around the corner. I completed my project for Security with my group, but other than that, I can't recall anything else worth mentioning aside from attending classes.

I really liked that guest lecture over ethics. Professor Cline and Professor Rich were great presenters, and they posed some difficult questions that I had trouble answering, which just goes to show how difficult it is to truly make the right decision sometimes. Funny enough, the only two CS classes I'm signed up for next semester are Contemporary Issues and Ethical Hacking, so I'll be hearing quite a bit about this in much more detail. I'm somewhat surprised that an ethics course isn't required for certain colleges, especially one that has such an immense effect on the way people live today like CS. I understand that it's important to be a good programmer when you graduate, but I think it's just as important, if not more so, to be a good person when you enter society.

## What's in my way?

I still have 15 points to get to hit the 180 total for my quizzes. I wonder if we even have that many quizzes left. Then there are also the three final midterms that will all be in the same week with Networks and SWE on the same day. I'm not really sure how that will go, but until then, I have to work hard on the presentation for SWE.

## What will I do next week?

I'll be meeting with my group for SWE to get the project done before the break so that I can enjoy my food in peace. I also have some Networks and Security assignments to do to reduce the amount of work I have after I come back. I'll also do my best to get started on preparing for my upcoming exams because that final week of classes will not be a fun experience.

## What's my experience of the class?

As the semester comes to a close, I'm starting to appreciate those free quizzes Professor Downing handed out more and more. In total, I believe we had 6 free quizzes (3 attendance + 3 talks) which don't seem like much individually but makes up a whole 3.6 points in the final grade when evaluated together. I'm only able to hang on dearly thanks to these, and I can't imagine how difficult this portion of the class would have been without them.

After reading this week's paper, I finally saw how well-organized SWE is. We get to use a variety of tools, gain exposure to many frameworks, and even have room for self-discovery. All these things are super useful to have some experience doing before going into industry. SWE is one of those classes where you don't learn to know but rather you learn to learn.

I also love the refactorings we are doing in class. My favorite so far has been the switch replacement using the Class class on Friday. When I was implementing my framework during my internship, I encountered that same exact issue, but I couldn't think of an elegant solution for it. I ended up leaving it as an if statement, which wasn't the worst thing in the world because there were only two choices anyways, but it certainly made the class clunky for extension if I wanted additional choices. I definitely will keep this in mind the next time.

## Pick of the week

Last week I started talking about dependency injection and one of the things I mentioned was the deferring of responsibility of creating instances to someone else. This week, I will be exploring one of the entities that makes this possible, something known as the injector. In particular, I will be using dependency injection with the Java Spring framework as my example.

When talking about dependency injection, the big question is what gets injected and what does the injecting. In Spring, classes to be injected are called "beans". At the top level, the entity which oversees and facilitates the life cycle of beans is called the "container". In Spring, this container is commonly the simple BeanFactory, responsible for the creation, configuration, injection, and destruction of beans, or the more complex ApplicationContext which does what BeanFactory does plus more. With every container is an XML file which allows for configuration of the container as well as definitions of the beans it contains.

```
   <!-- A simple bean definition from https://www.tutorialspoint.com/spring/spring_bean_definition.htm -->
   <bean id = "..." class = "..."> <!-- you can add a lot more parameters here -->
      <!-- configurations for this bean go here -->
   </bean>
```

When a bean is requested, a string is passed to the container which is matched to a bean ID. If successful, an instance of the class defined will be returned with any set configurations for its fields. [Here's an example](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/spring/spring_beanfactory_container.htm). Because you're identifying beans by ID, it's possible to make multiple configurations for the same class to fit multiple situations.

The instance that gets returned can also contain special parameter fields for beans. The most important of these are "scope", which affects what kind of instance is returned (by default it is a singleton), "init-method" which specifies the method that executes when this bean is created, and "destroy-method" which specifies the method that executes when this bean is garbage collected. Combined with field configurations, you can effectively tell a program, "when you see a method using an instance of this class, I want that instance to look like so".

It can get annoying to have to edit the XML for bean instantiation, so what you can do instead is use @Annotations. Putting @Bean before a method says that calling this method would return a bean. There are quite a few things you can do with this if you want to [read more](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/context/annotation/Bean.html).

One you get your beans defined and configured, to get them to inject where you need them to, simply add @Autowired before the method that takes the instance as an argument or a even a field. The Spring container will intercept these at class creation and inject the appropriate bean in their place. [Here's a pretty good reference for the different ways to use @Autowired](http://www.baeldung.com/spring-autowire).

And that's it! Now whenever you need to use an instance of the particular class you created, you can get a pre-configured one with almost no work. What I touched on is merely the surface of Spring, but just this is already powerful. For a service owner, dependency injection is amazing as it allows you to statically define configurations for instances of your service wherever it is used by editing only the XML.

Have a great Thanksgiving! See you next week!
