---
layout: post
title: Closing Curtains
---

## Final Thoughts

I can't believe it's already time for the final blog of the semester. SWE had been quite the ride, and although it was tough, I enjoyed the course. I've said this many times before, but the success of this class really comes down to Professor Downing himself. To this day, I still think that he is the most thorough when it comes to details of programming languages. Even if the material was the same, this class would not have been the same without him.

When it comes to the tools that we used in class, I think the ones we used were not so bad. Many were annoying to use, but Professor Downing was open to alternative suggestions, so overall, you always had something else you could use if you don't like what he offered. For someone who is completely new to the SWE scene, having options to start exploring is useful especially if that person doesn't know where to begin.

The quizzes, while rather frustrating at times, encourage us to keep up with the material. The daily roulette of questions ensures that we stay attentive in class. At first glance, they all seem "negative" to a student, but in the long run, these two routines makes studying for exams much easier when you already have most of the knowledge in your head.

Finally, there is the class project. It was a lot of fun and had many elements that you would find in SWE in the real world, so it felt like I was doing something meaningful unlike some of my other classes. Learning cool topics is nice and all, but it's a plus to have experience working on something in a similar environment to the work place. I don't believe I'm saying this, but I'll somewhat miss working on it now that it's all over. The project stretched on for so long that I can't help but feel a bit melancholic now that I have to part it.

Walking into SWE at the beginning of the semester, I was honestly afraid. Based on my experience in OOP, I knew this would be a worthwhile class, but I was still uncertain about the difficulty curve. Would it be even more brutal than the C++ experience? Looking back, I can now say with confidence that the course is a fair bit easier than OOP because Python is a much less wonky language than C++. This, of course, could also be bias as I already had an idea of what to expect from this venture. With that said, every well-off CS graduate would tell you to take a "Downing course" before you leave UT, and SWE will personally be my recommendation.

It was quite a journey everyone, but we finally made it to the end, mostly intact, but much well-off than when we first stepped through those auditorium doors. It was a pleasure working with everyone, especially my team and Professor Downing. Best of luck in the future, fellow classmates! May our paths intersect further this long and windy road.
