---
layout: post
title: Combo Breaker
---

## What did I do this past week?

This week was super busy with all the work I had in practically every class although none had as much as SWE. The goal was to create a static website, but the progress that everyone else on Piazza made scared my group to death thinking that we were behind. Hopefully, the first phase turns out well and that we didn't completely forget something important.

In other news, I was caught by the second rotation of random-pickings in class. On one hand, Professor Downing finally knows my name now that he has confirmed it with me. On the other hand, I had no idea how to answer the question he asked me, so I did the next best thing and said some rubbish with confidence.

Annnd then I got picked again for the start of the third rotation. What are the odds of being twice in the same week? This time I was a little more prepared, but I completely misheard when he asked me about what happens when you call next() at the end of the iterator. For some reason, I kept thinking he said when you call iter(), and so I was very confused when he kept repeating the question when I told him it returned nothing. Oops.

I also broke my streak of perfect quizzes on Friday when I was confronted by a question over the UML & SQL reading. I had skimmed the Single Responsibility Principle reading without noticing there was another reading for this week, so I had to rely on my fuzzy memories of Data Management which managed to get me one of them. I knew that one set of keys was a subset of the other, but I couldn't for the life of me remember which one was a subset of which, so it was unfortunate that I failed the 50-50.

## What's in my way?

The test is approaching, so I need to step up my game. We're covering a lot of details, so I hope I can remember all of them well enough to do well on the exam. Other than that, I still need to read over the documentation for Flask and React because it took my group a bit longer than expected to set just Flask up, and if we are to be using these tools to help us build the backend and frontend in the next phase, we need to learn them now.

## What will I do next week?

I will be finishing my networks and security projects ASAP to reserve time for studying for my exams. Since my Japanese exam comes before SWE, that takes priority, but I don't expect that to take very long since the first exam is only reading. I'm expecting that the SWE exam will be similar to the format of the OOP exam with some multiple choice questions similar to the quizzes, so that's how I'll be studying to prepare for it. Professor Downing hinted pretty heavily at having to implement an iterator in class, so I will keep that in mind.

## What's my experience of the class?

I pointed out to my friends that I felt lecture was easier than what it felt like in OOP. I had thought that maybe it was because I got more experience programming this past summer, but I was quickly reminded that that isn't the case. Rather it's because Python is a much tamer language than the eccentric C++.

## Tip of the week

If you're struggling to find another API to scrape information from, my tip to you is to take a look at [Fandom Wiki APIs](http://api.wikia.com/wiki/FANDOM_Content_API). Wikias cover a wide variety of topics created and maintained by fans, and each one conforms to the wikia API, so you can scrape lots of information that you might not be able to obtain otherwise from official sources. My only gripe with this API is that due to the nature of wikias being maintained by users, there can be inconsistencies across multiple articles which can make automation of scraping difficult.

Maybe you too can find something useful from one of the wikis for your website. See you next time!
