---
layout: post
title: ILDB
---

## What did I do this past week?

Classes have finally started moving. In SWE, we're getting more indepth on the semantics of Python, which is always fun to know. I managed to survive yet another wave of quizzes which I can only attribute to carefully reviewing the material the night before as well as right before the quiz. Or maybe I've just gotten very lucky.

My group and I have also started working on our project, LoLDB. It took us quite a bit of time to pick our topic as there was rather poor coordination between the members of my group near the beginning of this week which led to many of our ideas (anime, video games, music) being taken. Fortunately, League of Legends is one of the more interesting ones that we still had up our sleeves without having to resort to using the (n+1)th iteration of Pokemon. Most of my team also has experience with the game, so we're pretty motivated to work on this assignment.

## What's in my way?

I somehow found myself in a situation where all of my classes have something due next Thursday. Worried about his exact situation, I am already almost done with one of them, and the other should be complete before the weekend is over, so that leaves all my time to focus on LoLDB and my security assignment. With that said, I still need to read up on how to use Flask properly to get started on the backend since a brief look through Riot's API seems to tell me that it is very easy to use.

## What will I do next week?

I need to work with my team to finish up the project and complete the first part. We've gotten a good amount done up until now, but we still need to wrap up the static portions that we would like to turn in. In the meantime, I will also get started on writing the backend using Flask as well as look into how to use the Youtube, Google, and possibly Twitch APIs.

I also need to get a good start or at least a solid idea on what I want to do for the encryption scheme my group and I are supposed to create for security class. It'll require some creative thinking, but I believe it should not be too bad of an assignment.

## What's my experience of the class?

I am very happy that Professor Downing decided to let us pick our own groups. I will do what is necessary to perform well in the class, but I am by no means someone who can work well with others right off the bat, so it definitely helps me to know that I can work with friends I am taking the class with. In fact, many of us decided to take SWE at the same time specifically so that we could work on this project together. 

## Tip of the week

Since everyone is moving along on the project, I just want to throw this tip out there: play around with your APIs and figure out what your APIs are capable of doing now rather than later. After spending a good amount of time going through the Riot API with my team, we realized that our original vision with this project wasn't very easy to do with the queries that we're allowed to make. I would say that we were quite fortunate to have caught on to this relatively early in the process of development of the website so that we can make adjustments to the relationships between our models and how we present the information accordingly.

Good luck to everyone! See you next time!
